docs/roadmap.rst, before:

.. include:: <isonum.txt>

=======
Roadmap
=======

A few ideas how to develop the project further, currently a list as a reminder for the main developers themselves, in no particular order, though with a tendency to list more important aspects first:


For version 0.2
===============

* Implement derived importers for Magnettech files

  * Magnettech stores datasets in individual files, be it individual scans for accumulations or different steps in a series of measurements.
  * At least for goniometer, power, and modulation amplitude sweeps, these should be transformed into single datasets.
  * Requires interpolation of data, as each individual dataset has its own *x* axis (usually field).


For later versions
==================

* Start to (re)implement functionality test-driven.

* Handling of Magnettech files

  * Renaming to sensible conventions (recursively through directories)

* Batch processing (via recipes?)

  * Basic preprocessing, plot, export as PNG/PDF, figure caption for dokuwiki


Todos
=====

A list of todos, extracted from the code and documentation itself, and only meant as convenience for the main developers. Ideally, this list will be empty at some point.

.. todolist::

Commit message:

Include Zenodo badge; updates after release

docs/roadmap.rst, after:

.. include:: <isonum.txt>

=======
Roadmap
=======

A few ideas how to develop the project further, currently a list as a reminder for the main developers themselves, in no particular order, though with a tendency to list more important aspects first:


For version 0.1.1
=================

* Update incrementVersion.sh

* Add Zenodo badge in README and documentation


For version 0.2
===============

* Implement derived importers for Magnettech files

  * Magnettech stores datasets in individual files, be it individual scans for accumulations or different steps in a series of measurements.
  * At least for goniometer, power, and modulation amplitude sweeps, these should be transformed into single datasets.
  * Requires interpolation of data, as each individual dataset has its own *x* axis (usually field).


For later versions
==================

* Start to (re)implement functionality test-driven.

* Handling of Magnettech files

  * Renaming to sensible conventions (recursively through directories)

* Batch processing (via recipes?)

  * Basic preprocessing, plot, export as PNG/PDF, figure caption for dokuwiki


Todos
=====

A list of todos, extracted from the code and documentation itself, and only meant as convenience for the main developers. Ideally, this list will be empty at some point.

.. todolist::
